.TH ARCH-MANWARN 1 "" "" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
arch-manwarn \- block pacman upgrades if manual intervention is required
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arch-manwarn
.RI [ check | status | read ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBarch-manwarn\fR is a minimalist utility written in Rust that checks the Arch Linux news RSS feed for posts requiring manual intervention.

Designed to run as a pacman hook, it blocks upgrades or installs if a matching news post is found, helping users avoid breaking changes due to missed interventions.

By default, it matches news titles and summaries against configurable keywords such as "manual intervention".

On first run, \fBarch-manwarn\fR assumes all prior news has already been reviewed.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B (no argument)
Prints a confirmation message to verify that \fBarch-manwarn\fR is set up correctly.
.TP
.B check
Checks the Arch Linux RSS feed for matching news posts. Used by the pacman hook to block upgrades.
.TP
.B status
Displays a list of cached matching news posts with timestamps.
.TP
.B read
Marks all cached unread posts as read.

.SH PACMAN HOOK
When installed correctly, a pacman hook triggers \fBarch-manwarn check\fR on every \fBpacman\fR upgrade or install.

If a new matching post is found, the transaction is blocked and the post is added to the read cache.

.SH DETECTION
A news entry is flagged if it contains any of the configured keywords in the title or summary (case-insensitive).

Default keywords include:
.IP \[bu] 2
manual intervention
.IP \[bu]
action required
.IP \[bu]
attention
.IP \[bu]
intervention

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/arch-manwarn/config.toml
Configuration file specifying keywords, RSS URLs, and behavior.
.TP
.I /var/cache/arch-manwarn.json
Stores the cache of seen and read news entries.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ARCH_MANWARN_CONFIG
Overrides the default config file path.
.TP
.B ARCH_NEWS_CACHE_PATH
Overrides the default cache file path.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B arch-manwarn
Prints a quick confirmation message.
.TP
.B arch-manwarn check
Checks for matching news entries. Used by pacman hook.
.TP
.B arch-manwarn status
Lists all cached entries matching your keywords.
.TP
.B arch-manwarn read
Marks all cached entries as read.

.SH SEE ALSO
pacman(8), curl(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by NLion74 <https://nlion.nl/>.

.SH LICENSE
UNLICENSE
